
George, 

Lets work together to make things a little more clear. A record, is an individual schemaless item to store and search for you in our system. Schemaless means that it does not necessarily have a predefined shape and size. A record can have an unlimited number of attributes up to 10 kilobytes in size. This item has characteristics just like a dog, a restaurant, or a football. We store characteristic information that you provide about each individual record in our system. Grouping these records in our system as an index such as Restaurants in San Francisco is a useful way to store info for future reference. Do you have any questions about this? 

Metrics in custom ranking can be be subjective depending on the target audience and goal. Some things to keep in mind when choosing a ranking is that people are typically looking for results that are personal, that offer a sense of trust or intamacy/understanding, perhaps proximity and convenience. Queries to your content should demonstrate the value you bring to the customer, So we need to explore your business goals and brand in order to best understand how your content should be organized. In general, you will want to rank your indeces by categories that seem most important to your product.


Matt, 

I am so sorry to hear about your inconvenience. Lets work together to get your workflow back to a a level of satisfaction. I will make a note about this new website layout and run some tests to see what can be done to improve user experience. Meanwhile, have you had the chance to take a look at our API clients? Its a really convenient way to automate CRUD operations to your index. With a few lines of code you could be creating and updating your data just by running a file. We currently support 11 languages and 4 mobile SDKs including javascript, python, php, ruby and django.

If you are interested, take a look at the APIs below and let me know if you have any questions. I understand your time is valuable and I am happy to help optimize this process however we can. 

https://www.algolia.com/doc/api-client/



Leo,

One of the great things about Algolia is that its so easy to get up and running. We have completed alot of hard work ahead of time so that integration is simple and fast. To get started integrating Algolia's powerful search engine into your website, first you need to make an account and start out 14 day free trial and recieve your API keys.

You can easily populate your Algolia database by importing through our dashboard or through one of our API clients (available in 14 languages). Once you have imported your data it will be important to keep it in sync with any new changes through a periodic update. Below is a link explaining the basics of how to import and keep your data in sync.

https://www.algolia.com/doc/guides/indexing/import-synchronize-data/#update-your-data

After you synchronize with your current website or app, its time to start thinking about ranking and queries for your new database. Ranking is a critical aspect of search experience. Algolia works hard to provide easy and effective ranking customization. It will be important to choose some Searchable and Custom Ranking Attributes now and is very easy to change later if new information arises. 

Once you create a profile, import data, and set up initial query attributes, you can begin integrating Algolias search engine with your application. Algolia has a lot of documentation (link below) to help you get started and I am happy to answer questions along the way. 

https://www.algolia.com/doc/


Let me know if you have any questions along the way. Heres the link to the Algolia interactive onboarding tutorial to get you started.
https://www.algolia.com/doc/guides/getting-started/how-it-works/
